= Urobot

Urobot gives a fairly accurate answer to the question if a user-agent string
belongs to a (human) browser or a bot. It does so by examines a user-agent
string to see if its looks like it belongs to a legitimate browser. If this
is not the case Urobot assumes the user-agent string to belong to a bot. This
also means that feedreaders, email clients, multimedia players, downloaders etc.
are all identified as bots. The reason for this is that Urobots primary use is
to distinguish between a human visitor and an automated process.

Urobot takes a whitelist + blacklist approach to identifying bots. First it uses
a whitelist to filter out any unknown ua string, it then uses a blacklist to
filter out any known bot that pretends to be a legitimate browser.

The white + blacklist approach makes Urobot fairly low maintenance but also
vulnerable to false positives and negatives. It cannot distinguish bots that
spoof their user-agent string to a perfectly valid one, neither can it
correctly identify a browser that has it user-agent string modified to a
nonsensical one.

With that in mind, Urobot has been developed against a list of over 30000
user-agent strings (rare browser, various permutations of known browsers, xss
attacks, known bots etc.) based on the content provided by the following sites:
* botsvsbrowsers.com
* robotstxt.org
* useragentstring.com
* user-agents.org
* user-agent-string.info
* zytrax.com
plus several additional strings pulled from my sites apache logs.

So Urobot has been well tested and should be right in the majority of cases.
Be aware that you should only use it in situations where false negatives and
positives can be afforded.

== Installation

If you want to use the Rails 2.1 dependency manager add this environment.rb:

  config.gem 'jaap3-urobot', :lib => 'urobot',
    :source => 'http://gems.github.com'

Then run the following command in your Rails application root:

  rake gems:install

Or use it as a plain plugin:

  script/plugin install git://github.com/jaap3/urobot.git

== Usage

In a Rails application Urobot automatically extends ActionController::Base
making the following instance methods available:

  robot?(user_agent)
  browser?(user_agent)

It also adds a class method called urobot.

So if you want to, for example, disable sessions for suspected bots you could
add the following code to your controller:

  session :disabled => true, :if => Proc.new do |request|
    urobot.robot?(request.user_agent)
  end

If you want to be able to use the Urobot methods in your views you should call
helper_method with the desired methods in your controller, like so:

  helper_method :robot?, :browser?

== Contributing

If you would like to contribute to Urobot, just fork the code
and send me a pull request after you are done fiddling.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Jaap Roes, released under the MIT license